In the three jewels, which are the essence of any tree root, in the bodhijana, which is the true
nature of the channels, winds, and essence,
and in the medulla of the essence, nature, compassion, then I take refuge until attaining the heart
of enlightenment.
So that is bodhijana. This is the famous teaching of the devil of the great master of human-master
jimin.
That's the inner teaching. So here, what is kind of trying to bring up this little more, because it
has more than three jewels, bodhijana-santham.
So what is the inner teaching of the great master? After refuge, inner refuge, singular refuge, and
absolute refuge.
So taking refuge in external level, taking refuge in inner level, and taking refuge in singular
level, and taking refuge in absolute levels.
Those are the four different ways of taking refuge. The essence of refuge, of course, is the same
that you all know.
No, refuge means making close connection to the bodhijana-santham or to the object-buddha-santham,
close connection.
That close connection is how that is, with confidence, with devotion, or with unfailing confidence,
with joy, making connection.
Not just contraction, but unfailing confidence. That is known as the essence of refuge, close
connection, making close.
So that means, in every spoke kind of simple way, that trusty, really joy, unfailing, trusty, and
enjoy. That is the leverage, common essence.
How are we going to keep that until we become the bodhijana? That means that until we discover our
innate nature.
Or our God completely discovered itself until death. Then why we don't need upper death?
In the teaching, you say that you don't have to take refuge in the notion of that attitude, because
you yourself become the ultimate of the refuge.
You attend that goal. So therefore, that is not something that you have to do externally.
But until that, keep commitment, keep trusting, and with joy, embracing that.
Whatever the situation and circumstance we go through, our trusty, confidence, joy is not failing
with you.
Always in the heart center, until eternity. That is really known as refuge.
Now that refuge we are taking to externally, and here, see, the three jewels.
This is externally, generally, it's every Buddhism, Chhagravata.
There is no difference between Theravada or Sarva Istvata schools, or all the Mahayana, and Vedaya.
Everyone falls over to Chhagravata. That's just standard, that therefore, God holds us out, using
terminology, as out, and be generous.
Now inner refuge is a difference. They don't use this terminology, such as Theravada, all that.
Then, from an inner refuge, then it's different. So inner refuge is what?
Guru, Deva, Dakini, as I said. That's a three root. Three root is in Sanskrit, Guru, Deva, and Dak
ini.
In that way, it says, Lama, Yadav, Kannur, Lama, Yadav, Kannur. That is.
So this is now inner refuge. That means particularly Vedayana practices, terminology, use it.
So now, what that means, we are giving either Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha.
No. Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha are become as Guru, Deva, Dakini, terminology used as Guru, Deva,
Dakini.
And so, it is not at all. And what means three root?
It means the root of blessing is Guru's. Root of blessings, sorry, root of accomplishment is Yadav,
or jinnis.
And root of the activity, the following activity is Dakini and Dharma, as I said.
And then every say, say, how we can connect that to the Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha.
The Guru is Buddha, the deity is Dharma, and the Dakini and Dharma are as Sangha.
So that's the general understanding.
So that means, the Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha are also within the three root.
Guru, Deva, Dakini.
And Guru have you example to example, who is Guru?
Guru can be, for example, Guru Pemma Sangha.
Guru Pemma Sangha by embodiment of all the brothers and the Dharma and Sangha.
Then according to the devotion that you have and the confidence that you have,
each individual teacher also can be perceived as Guru.
Guru, that depends upon the individual's confidence.
For those reasons, many times in the teaching said, because of our confidence,
even the human teacher, you can be as part of Guru Pemma Sangha.
So we always like Guru Pemma Sangha, Guru Pemma Sangha as our teacher.
Teaching, that is what Buddha is, Guru Pemma Sangha Buddha.
And the Yadaams, what is the Yadaams? For example, the Yadaams have been said,
that example of the Vedic Goliath is the Yadaam.
Vedic Satva is the Yadaam.
And of course, this that means, they really mean they are not Dharma,
but it's only highlighted.
So, and then the Swatyasa Amitabha can be Yadaam too.
Now for the D.T., I'm translate it. Or Yadaam, D.T., and then Devas are all,
there's some terminology said there.
So, they are.
And then, what is Dakinis?
Dakinis suggest Dakini Shithonas.
Where are your meanings? Where are your Taras?
And as well, all those are named as like Dakinis.
Again, it really means they are not Dharma, they are not Yadaams.
They are Yadaam, they are D.T., but it's only highlighted all of us.
So, that is what is known as Guru Deva Dakinis.
That is inner Dafuji.
And the severe Dafuji is, now, is, now here he said what?
Severe Dafuji is the Bodhic Dada, which is true nature of channel, wind, and essence.
Severe Dafuji is channel, wind, and essence element,
which is the resident of the Bodhic Dada.
And why translate that?
Wind is the resident of the Bodhic Dada, which is residing within the channel,
within the wind, within the essence element of the Bodhic.
That is simply reference.
Why this channel and wind and essence element become as object reference?
According to Vediyana, as we mentioned earlier, we are studying, right?
Vediyana, this Bodhi is not a regular Bodhi.
It's not a insignificant thing.
This Bodhi is very precious.
Therefore, Manetran's teaching said, "Oh, this Bodhi is a temple.
A temple of all the Buddhas.
This is simple, so simple, and it's a temple.
All the pieces of Buddhas, rather Buddhas, those are highlighted there.
But the murmur of Buddhas are residing.
Where they're residing, they're residing in the channels.
They're residing in the wind.
They're residing in the essence element of the Bodhi.
The essence element Bodhi is that we obtain from the gross essence element of the Bodhi,
we receive from our parent, white element and red element.
They're called teaching.
There's a subtle essence element that comes with our conscience, indestructible,
even sometimes indestructible spirit, spirit that moves from life to life, life.
And where the essence is, it's residing all over the channel, all over the wind,
as the oil is spread out with the mustard seed.
Mustard seed is oil.
Oil of the mustard seed is spread out throughout the mustard seed.
It's not just one location.
All the oil of the nut, it's not just one location of nut,
it's spread out, even spread out.
Similarly, this essence element is spread out all our bodies with channel, with wind, with essence.
And so, therefore, these channels, our channels are like we use as figures, it's dakinis.
And we say what are the channels, are the essence of the dakini, dakini and the narmakayas.
And the winds are the essence of the dharmon and as well as the duties.
And the essence element is the essence of the gurus and the dharmon kayas.
So the other level is three kayas.
And all the absolute Buddha, Dharma, Sangha and Guru Deva dakinis is residing in a bearded form of
channel, wind, essence.
And we connect to these three principles and use that, that these existing channels and essence
elements and wind are currently existing things with our body.
That's what we are like.
All right.
And we use those techniques as very analytical.
Then we can roughly advance our realization or the discovery of our inner nature or the enlightened
nature.
Then here I say this, in the Bodhic Chakra.
So Bodhic Chakra is what?
Bodhic Chakra is an absolute Bodhic Chakra.
Absolute Bodhic Chakra and that is terminology can be used as dakakan and dharma.
Buddha nature, Buddha nature or the salt bone, enlightened salt bone, awareness of the primordial
wisdom.
Wisdom, that which is hiding within the channel, within the wind, within the essence element.
That is the significant object of refuge. To recognize that and be, by that said, activate those
with teaching, then we are explorations of our inner culture.
That is what is known as the significant object of refuge.
Then the absolute object of refuge is what here, here is it, and in the mind of the essence, nature
and compassion.
That is within our Rupa.
Rupa, our awareness is embodiment of the three guides.
Our Rupa is embodiment of essence, compassion and the nature.
And how that Dr. T.J. said, many of you know, that nature is emptiness.
Essence is clarity, luminous cities, and then radiating energy is compassion.
Rupa, our awareness is not just a block of physical object, kind of state, it is radiating.
Where is radiating? In a larger level, it is radiating to all the beings.
Every six realms, it is radiating our own awareness.
That is a larger level, it is true, according to the teaching.
And more kind of an excluding level is radiating to every of our senses.
That is what we know, that is not what we feel, we smell, we taste, we feel.
All that radiating energy, that collective of that event is brightening up.
This is the luminous city, more luminous feet than the sun and moon, or the stars.
Luminous, call it, that is what essence is.
Essence is luminous city, it is radiating.
And then that radiating is not just a kind of self-importance, a sense of love, or we know it.
It is compassion, it is kindness.
It is providing to every dimension, that compassion love.
And that which is also known as dharmakaya, sambhokaya, and dharmakayas.
Nature is dharmakaya, essence is dharmakaya, and compassion is dharmakaya.
This is absolute rub, technique of the raffa.
Recognize that nature and be in that status.
It is technique of raffa.
That is abiding the dharmakaya status, technique of raffa.
And how long are we going to do that?
Until we become the Buddha.
We are here saying, I tell raffa, until I attain the heart of enlightenment.
Until that.
So that is the meaning, the essential meaning of this technique of raffa.
And again, externally feel strong presence of all those of you who raffa is
an army lover and a lineage master.
As in purgatory we went on many times, again, I believe in people.
Sibling, devotion, sizzling, trusting, confidence, and joy with that.
And then with important hand toward the heart center and guide this prayer three times.
Time with those understanding.
Don't ever think every time of this and that, this and that thing.
But now if you don't have meaning, then just be in that status and enjoy this prayer.
And that is technique, raffa, raffa.
And then, next one is...